# AMR-project-push-recovery
Repository for the code in our Autonomous and Mobile robotics project about push recovery algorithms for humanoid robots.

This here is an implementation of a walking motion planner that supports replanning to recover from external disturbances (such as a force pushing on the robot). The code implements:
- A footstep planner capable of optimally placing footsteps according to an online optimization problem.
- An interpolator for the trajectory of the Divergent Component of Motion (DCM) according to the position of the Zero Moment Point as dictated by the footstep plan.
- Control on a simplified Linear Inverted Pendulum (LIP).
- A step adapter module that can change the footstep plan online if a disturbance is detected.

 
Code is structured as follows: 
- loadParameters.m contains all the parameters that are used in the various script 
- main.m contains the first trajectory plan function and the main loop. Main component of the loop is the "cycle" method of the solver class. In the loop, at each iteration, conditions are checked to see if a footstep is completed or if the simulation should stop .

Two classes command everything:
- A "Planner" class provides the plan for the nominal trajectory starting from the last completed footstep up to the goal. It does so in the planNominalTrajectory method. Total number of steps to performs is kept constant. The first planning operation is performed by controlling a fictional unicycle from desired start and finish positions. The actual footsteps are obtained by discretizing the trajectories of the wheels of the unicycle. After the first planning operation is completed, the plan can only be changed by the step adapter.
- Solver controls the LIP by using a simplified model controller. In solver the cycle loop is implemented. Solver also performs the necessary trajectory interpolation between ZMP and DCMeos generated by the planner. The stepAdapter is part of solver.
